.. _voice-configuration:

===================
Voice Configuration
===================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 2


This is a simple step-by-step guide for configuration of the necessary
components of Newfies-Dialer. It covers the configuration of Freeswitch and
Newfies-Dialer, followed by setting off the first Newfies-Dialer campaign.


.. _configuration-freeswitch-trunk-configuration:

Freeswitch Trunk configuration
==============================

In order for Newfies-Dialer to make outbound calls to its subscribers,
you will need a SIP trunk. The Freeswitch wiki can provide more information on
configuring trunks. However creating a trunk simply for Newfies-Dialer is
straightforward.

Trunks or gateways, as they are known in Freeswitch, are configured using XML
syntax, so using your favourite text editor, while logged in as root
"sudo su -" create an XML file in /etc/freeswitch/sip_profiles/external/ and
give it an identifiable name, e.g. call-labs.xml, and place the following
lines in the file.
::

    <include>
    <gateway name="ip address or hostname of carrier">
    <!--/// account username *required* ///-->
    <param name="username" value="your username provided by carrier"/>
    <!--/// auth realm: *optional* same as gateway name, if blank ///-->
    <!--<param name="realm" value="asterlink.com"/>-->
    <!--/// username to use in from: *optional* same as username, if blank ///-->
    <param name="from-user" value="your username provided by carrier"/>
    <!--/// domain to use in from: *optional* same as realm, if blank ///-->
    <!--param name="from-domain" value=""/-->
    <!--/// account password *required* ///-->
    <param name="password" value="your password supplied by carrier"/>
    <!--/// extension for inbound calls: *optional* same as username, if blank ///-->
    <!--<param name="extension" value="cluecon"/>-->
    <!--/// proxy host: *optional* same as realm, if blank ///-->
    <!--<param name="proxy" value="asterlink.com"/>-->
    <!--/// send register to this proxy: *optional* same as proxy, if blank ///-->
    <!--<param name="register-proxy" value="mysbc.com"/>-->
    <!--/// expire in seconds: *optional* 3600, if blank ///-->
    <!--<param name="expire-seconds" value="60"/>-->
    <!--/// do not register ///-->
    <param name="register" value="true"/>
    <!-- which transport to use for register -->
    <!--<param name="register-transport" value="udp"/>-->
    <!--How many seconds before a retry when a failure or timeout occurs -->
    <!--<param name="retry-seconds" value="30"/>-->
    <!--Use the callerid of an inbound call in the from field on outbound calls via this gateway -->
    <!--<param name="caller-id-in-from" value="false"/>-->
    <!--extra sip params to send in the contact-->
    <!--<param name="contact-params" value="tport=tcp"/>-->
    <!--send an options ping every x seconds, failure will unregister and/or mark it down-->
    <!--<param name="ping" value="25"/>-->
    </gateway>
    </include>

The lines in bold are almost certainly required by your carrier and Freeswitch,
the remaining parameters can be uncommented and used, if required by your
carrier. The XML syntax for comments are denoted by lines that begin " <!– "
and end in "–> ".

Finally we need to load the new configuration, and check the trunk is
registered. The Freeswitch console is accessed by typing "fs_cli" at the
command prompt. The logging level can be increased or decreased from level 0
to level 7. to switch off logging, type /log 0 at the Freeswitch console,
followed by enter. For the greatest verbosity, type /log 7 followed by enter.

Type "fs_cli" followed by enter.

You should now see the Freeswitch CLI, so now reload the Freeswitch
configuration with the following command: (tip; Tab auto-completes)
::

    sofia profile external restart reloadxml


When complete, check the trunk has registered with the following command.
::

    sofia status


Against the name of the trunk you configured in the XML file, you should see
REGED (registered) at the end of the line. Take a note of the trunk name, we
are going to need it for telling Newfies-Dialer that it can use this trunk.

To exit the Freeswitch CLI, do CTRL D, or /exit

Freeswitch configuration is now complete.


.. _voice-application:

Voice Application
=================

For demonstration purposes, we are going to configure one standard voice
application supplied with Newfies-Dialer, using the root user, to call only
one person.

We are going to use the admin interface to tell Newfies-Dialer about the
gateway we have configured in Freeswitch and set the  maximum parameters for
a customer such as their allowed dial rate, maximum number of campaigns, etc.


Set Hostname
------------

Some of the features of Newfies-Dialer are dependent on the hostname or IP
address, so this has to be set correctly in site address.

In the Admin dashboard, locate the "Sites" link and click change. By default,
there will be an entry of "example.com". Edit this setting to reflect the
hostname of the server, or if you do not have this set up, the IP address.
e.g.  http://www.domain.tld or in the case of an IP address,
something like http://192.168.1.200


Newfies-Dialer’s Gateway
------------------------

Log into the Newfies-Dialer interface using your root username and password
previously created in these instructions.

Click Admin, and locate and enter the "Dialer Gateways" panel on the
dashboard, then add a dialer gateway. Only the fields in bold need to be
filled in. That is to say, the name of gateway, for identification, and the
Gateway’s field, e.g.
::

    sofia/gateway/myprovider/


"myprovider" is the name of the gateway which you can take from the gateway
name when you typed "sofia status" when configuring the Freeswitch Gateway.
Finally, check the status is active, and save. The trunk should now appear in
the gateway list.


Dialer Settings
---------------

Each customer, including the root user, needs to have Dialer Settings and
trunks associated with their account. These set the limit to which each
customer can utilise Newfies-Dialer in terms of trunks, calls per minute,
call duration, subscribers and campaigns, as well as blacklisting or
whitelisting phone numbers.

In the Admin Dashboard, locate the Dialer Settings, and click Add, in the
name, put "DS1" and, for the moment, leave the default settings as they are,
then save them.

The Dialer Settings have to be associated with the customer’s account. For
the purposes of this demonstration, we are using the root user.  In
production, you would apply these settings to the customers.

In the Admin dashboard, click Admins, then root. Scroll to the bottom of the
page.

 * Optionally add an accountcode, which can be used for billing in an
 external billing application to identify the customer from the CDR. The
 accountcode must be numerical.
 * Select which Dialer Settings apply to this customer, in this case "DS1"
 * Select which gateway(s) this customer is allowed to use.

Finally, click save.

NB: Everything above this is covered at the video at the top of the page,
from configuring FreeSWITCH to apply Dialer Settings.


.. _configuration-customer-portal:

Customer Portal
===============

Now we are going to use the customer’s portal to create phonebooks containing
subscribers to call, configure a survey, add campaign, and start the outbound
voice broadcast. These should always be done from the Customer Portal and not
from the Admin Interface. To proceed, click "Customer Panel" at the top of
Admin interface.


Create Phonebook
----------------

The phonebook is where lists of subscribers are grouped. Click Customer Panel
on the top menu in the Admin Dashboard, then click Phonebook, and add a new
phonebook.

Create a new phonebook called, for the purposes of the exercise, PB1, and
give it a description.


Add Contacts
------------

Click contact, and add a new contact. As a minimum add a phone number to call
in the Contact field, and for the purposes of this demonstration, enter your
own telephone number in the format that your carrier expects it. Click Submit.

Repeat as necessary until you have your test numbers added.


Add Survey
----------

Next we are going to configure the survey that will be executed when
Newfies-Dialer calls your phone and you answer. Click Modules, Survey, then
click add. As is traditional with first steps, we will call this survey
"Hello World".

The aim is that Newfies-Dialer will call you, and when you answer,
Newfies-Dialer will broadcast "Hello World" to you using the text to speech
engine in Freeswitch.

Click "Add Section" and select "Play Message", enter "Hello World" in the
section title. This is the speech that will be read out by the TTS engine. It
can be edited later. When done, click save.

Best practice is that we should hangup, and mark the survey as complete, so
click "Add Section" and select Hangup as the node type. Type "Goodbye" in the
section title, and tick "Survey complete"

Next, set up the node branching. On the play message panel, click the branch
icon, and select "Goodbye" as the next destination.

Finally, click Close Survey, and move on to configuring the campaign.


Configure Campaign
------------------

We now have all the components to create and run our campaign, so click
campaign, and click add.

Give the Campaign a name, say "CPN Hello World", optionally, a description,
set a caller ID to pass the called party,  select the A-Leg Gateway you
configured earlier, the application, Hello World, and highlight the phonebook
PB1, and submit. You will be returned to the list of campaigns.


Start The Campaign
------------------

We are now ready to launch the campaign, simply press the Play button against
the CPN Hello World campaign.

In a few seconds, your campaign will launch, your phone will ring, and you
will hear "Hello World" followed by "Goodbye" broadcast to you over the phone.


.. note:: As with all telephony systems, they are a valuable target on the
internet, so before exposing any telephone system to the Internet, do ensure
that you have done a security audit. Also note that in some countries,
telemarketing, phone polling, and automated dialling is under regulatory
control, and advice should be sought as to how best to remain within the
limits of the law. First points of reference may be Ofcom in the UK and the
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in the USA.
